[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to healthy
habit number 3,
which is all about breath work.
This is such a simple
and ancient technique
to help oxygenate yourselves,
to help bring peace and calm
to your body, and to help
support your immune system.
I really hope you enjoy
this breath work class
that we have chosen for you.
Hi.
It's James here.
And welcome to this
short breath work class.
Today I'm going
to be guiding you
through a 4-4-8 process,
where we breathe in
for 4, short pause,
hold for 4, short pause,
exhale for 8, short pause,
and then start again.
By extending the
exhalation of the breath,
we send a signal to our body
and to our mind to calm down.
And that overriding signal
helps to bring more peace
to our lives.
To start, make sure we're in
a seated and upright position
or laying down on the ground.
You can close your eyes to
bring your attention fully
to the breath.
I'm going to take you
through explaining one round,
and then we'll start together.
So we go in 2, 3, 4.
Pause.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
Pause.
Again.
Close your eyes, up straight.
If you're breathing
through your nose,
you can rest your tongue
on the top of your mouth.
Or if you're breathing
through your mouth,
as you can do it whatever way
feels most comfortable to you.
And in 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
In, 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
And in 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
In 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
And in 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
In 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
In 2, 3, 4.
Hold 2, 3, 4.
Out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
And when you're finished,
just return the breath
to its normal cadence.
Or you can continue straight
into your meditation.
Namaste.
[MUSIC PLAYING]